I want to live
[Music]
hey what's up everybody welcome to my
long-term non sponsored no BS review and
ramblings of my stage of cycling power
meter I've been using this power meter
since 2014 and since then I now have
three one of my road bike one on my
mountain bike and then this one which
used to be in my road bike but I just
got tired of BB 30 yeah on the whole my
experience has been a positive one this
one is first generation and then the two
ones that I have now both second
generation and for my intents and
purposes they've been they've been fine
there are a few little quirks which I'll
tell you about in a few moments but on
the whole I definitely recommend them
thumbs up but now let's talk about more
of the details so first of all getting a
power meter is probably the best
investment I've made to my cycling
fitness and progression if you're
unfamiliar with training a power meter
and you just I don't know how you would
have found this video but get a power
meter highly recommended it's been
awesome for of course training outdoors
doing intervals syncing with head units
I use Garmin I know in 2017 there's a
lot of options now but most of losing
Garmin and no problem connecting I
connected to my computer to use things
like Swift
trainer Road and usually there's no
issues every once in a while I'll get
like a little drop out as the battery
gets low you know like sometimes just my
setup on off the table it's too thick or
something but sometimes the connection
gets finicky but it's very rare I mean
out of ten rides I might have a problem
with one just you know like a little bit
of a stuttered delay with data going
from the unit to the computer and that
could be the aunt dongle could be
computer could be table could be this
but other people have talked about it
online so I'm just mentioning here as
well one big thing that people complain
about is the battery door a lot of
people have broken the battery door and
I in fact have broken a battery door as
well so let me show you how this kind of
works all right so that's the inside
right there you got your ring the lid
and then you've got these thin little
plastic key things which you know lock
it down and the first time I took this
lid off I broke the lid but station
school you know just get in contact with
them and they'll send or they did for me
they'll send me out extra battery caps
now I got four and I have one two three
left over you know so now that I know
about it I'm careful but for the first
time I did break the lid one thing that
I do have a problem with with my
mountain bike one but not the other two
is battery life for whatever reason the
mountain bike one the battery will
continue to drain when I'm not using
when I'm not riding and that's not the
case with my two road bike ones these
were perfectly fine but the mountain
bike one I've updated the firmware ivory
greased the o-ring I've changed the lid
but it still drains the battery it seems
to have a problem shutting off and when
I'm not riding so I mean for me the
fixes that I just take the battery out
after each time I ride my mountain bike
put it away you know in a container and
then I'll put it back in when I go ride
some people might be a bit bothered by
that for me it's okay I'm in a bit of an
inconvenience but when I'm still riding
there's no issues it's just the battery
drain so I just want to make you aware
that water damage people have complained
about water damage and you know here in
California that's not a huge issue but I
think if you're just smart about it you
know like don't spray it with a garden
hose directly but I wash my bike I wrap
a plastic bag around it like this and
you know then I'll continue to wash it
so you know I've never sprayed it
full-on with with water so I've had no
issues with water damage yeah so in 2017
you know there's a lot of options
nowadays in 2014 there weren't quite as
many there's been a bit of an explosion
in the market in the past few years back
then the big names were SRM of course
quark and what was the hub one was it
power
PowerTap hub I think those are kind of
the big ones and yeah the rear wheel
think like if you're getting the rear
wheel thing in 2017 I think that's kind
of silly with all the options that are
out there I don't recommend the hub
based ones anymore SRMs could be
expensive you know and you got to ship
them out to get them serviced so at the
time stages seem like the smartest
choice for you know my abilities and my
budget in 2017 there's a lot of other
options now a lot of pedal bait things a
lot of other competitors to this like
pioneer so we'll talk about that in a
moment but here's some of the
limitations of a single Lake unit like
this so this is just your left leg
that's pedaling and it calculates the
power from your left leg multiplies it
by two for your right and that's how you
get your power data now not perfect of
course because you know everyone has a
natural lake discrepancy as far as power
goes I mean five percent according to
some podcasts I've listened to is pretty
normal but for training purposes
you know like for amateurs I mean almost
guy uses these so the proof is in the
pudding there that they do fine one
practical thing I could think of is say
you got in an accident and you broke a
bone or something and you want to try to
measure your left leg versus right Lake
see you know how you're recovering or
how your legs are doing you know this
will not be able to do that but I mean
if if you're in that situation you may
as well be going to a physical therapist
or something but you know for the
data-driven people you ought to know
that as well I'm curious about the new
pedal systems Garmin vectors came out
and they weren't getting the best
reviews at first now there's these p1
pedals I think they're called and I'd be
curious to see you know in time how they
fare durability lines because if they
prove to be very durable I think that's
the way to go because changing your
pedals is even easier than changing a
crank arm and let's say you have a time
trial bike or a triathlon bike recycle
cross body can your road bike you can
just buy that one power meter and then
you know swap it to different bikes and
some people like longer cranks on their
time trial bike when they do on the road
bike etc so provided that theory proved
to be more durable you know that's where
I'd put my money but you can still get
these pretty cheap you know good
so this one you know it's a used one and
I'll be selling this you know because I
don't need it anymore I'm tired of the
BB 30 but you get a pretty solid deal if
you do not have any power meter that
definitely recommend stages looking back
it's been great looking forward I mean
there's so much new stuff you know in
the market these days that be curious
about those pedal systems for even and
easier swapping between bikes but uh
yeah otherwise you know comments
questions down below like subscribe if
you like this thanks so much for
watching and we'll see you in the next
one